instantiating a raise is a lot like
instantiating any other object so I'll
first note that arrays are also objects
so what's an object well that's like a
planet or a walrus or a dog or whatever
else but it also includes arrays and as
we've seen objects are usually
instantiated using the new keyword so I
might say Planet P equals new planet
yada yada yada
or I could say int array X equals new
int and then use this syntax that we saw
in homework 0 now in the previous
lecture we broke down declaration
instantiation and assignment in two
separate steps so let's just do that
again in the context of arrays to make
sure that everything all makes sense so
when I say int array a this is a
declaration what that does is it creates
a box which is 64 bits in size which can
store the address of an int array and
nothing else even though technically
interets and planets and walruses and so
forth all of those variables store
64-bit addresses the compiler will only
let us store an address of an int array
in this box now at this point there is
no actual objects we've only declared a
variable next up there's instantiation
so when I say new int Brak braces 0 1 2
95 4 that will instantiate a new object
that is it will create 5 boxes each of
size 32 it'll put 0 1 2 95 and 4 in
those boxes respectively and then the
new command will return the address of
this object now at this point I'll say
the object is anonymous in the sense
that there's no name for it right we
haven't assigned it to a variable
the address is shouted by new but it
falls on deaf ears and so while this
object is created it is immediately gone
or just not usable so I should mention
very briefly that an array is not
actually literally only 5 times 32 bits
there's a little bit of additional
overhead not shown here but not really a
big deal in our class and then often we
will do declaration instantiation and
assignment all in one step so here it is
the declaration part of this line it
creates a 64 bit box for storing an
address new int creates the center add
and then finally the equal sign takes
the address shouted by new and this time
rather than falling on deaf ears and
ever be known it is stored in the a
variable so just to finish out this
little section I figured I'd mentioned
the fact that instantiate adopts that as
planets arrays whatever else can be lost
so in other words let's say a points at
this object right here and it's the only
copy it's the only copy of the address
this 64 bit box here in that case if we
were to say ETA equals new whatever else
right so a point set a new object then
we no longer have this address stored
anywhere and therefore there's no way we
can ever get that object back that's not
a bad thing I mean there are cases as
we'll see pretty soon when we start
building lists where we do actually want
to lose references to things but just a
note we lose an address that object is
lost and will be consumed by the garbage
collector